For this next assignment in this section,
I want you to experience some of the bad
and good shutdown stuff
with Node. We're going to actually build this
Dockerfile and do it in different ways,
just like I showed you in the previous lectures for the different shutdown options,
so that you can see how it reacts,
how it behaves and have some real-world understanding
of what's really going on there.
We're using the assignment answer file,
your Dockerfile, from this previous assignment.
Make sure you've done that assignment first because we're going to
use the assignment Dockerfile directory.
You're going to take that Dockerfile
and you'll change it,
and build it, and then run it so that we can experience
the three, different options that I previously talked about in
the shutdown lectures.
First up, if you've completed the previous assignment,
you then have tini in the Dockerfile so it's added into
the container, and you're running it through the entry point.
So, that should be good, right. You'll be able to build that new image
and run it as a container, just like you did in the previous assignment
without any changes, and it should exhibit this kind of behavior.
If you're on Windows,
realize that when you control c,
it's not sending a termination
or stop signal. It's actually doing a detach signal.
That's just because on Windows,
that control c sends different signals.
It's a Windows thing. It's not related to Docker in any way.
It really just detaches the running container.
So, you're going to see a different experience on Windows.
But if you're on Mac and Windows, I want you to try the control c,
then start up the container again
and try the docker stop.
If you're on Windows, you're going to only be able to do a docker stop.
The reason I want you to do both of these,
especially if you're on Mac and Linux,
because the Control c
and the docker stop are different signals.
They actually do different things,
so I want to make sure that you see both sides of it.
In all those cases,
the app should stop. It just so happens that we can't see the app
shutting down properly inside it because it's not really...it's not really
waiting for connections to end
and properly, gracefully shutting down.
Remember we're going to need code for that.
So once you've played around with that tini inside there,
then take out the entry point command in the Dockerfile.
Build it again
and run it just like you did before.
Then Control c,
if you're on Mac and Windows.
Do a docker stop if you're on either one of them.
Like try both of those.
You should see where the app doesn't respond right away
and it maybe takes 10 seconds, and that is the termination
happening. That's basically showing that the signals aren't getting captured.
Docker is not listening and so it's waiting 10 seconds
and then finally shutting it down.
Lastly here, I want you to imagine if you're in a
Dockerfile that you can't edit, or it's an image that you've already downloaded,
and you have to do the --init inside your
docker run command.
Which, in this case,
sure, it's the same thing as what we did earlier where we put
tini in the Dockerfile.
But maybe you have a case where you can't modify the image
and you have to shove in the tini at runtime.
So, I want you to experience that as well.
You're going to run with a --init,
and you're going to do a Control c on Mac
and Windows. And then on every OS,
also do a docker stop.
So we see how both of those behave.
For a bonus on this assignment,
if you wanted to get into actual code,
you could take my sample graceful shutdown code
from the sample graceful shutdown
directory. That's
sample-graceful-shutdown directory. You can bring that in your app.
You can actually plug that into the app.js.
This requires, you know,
to understand the JavaScript obviously a little bit more.
Because this course isn't necessarily about JavaScript heavily,
but you should be able to figure that out if you have some background in Node.
See how that behaves because when you use that code,
you're going to Control c
and you're going to do a docker stop, and it will capture each one of those
shutdown signals separately
and then give you a different exit.
Sort of echo to the console.
You'll know that it's capturing the correct signal.
Of course if you have any questions,
or if you just want to see me walk through this assignment,
jump to the next lecture as I do this the same way you should.